[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Add experimental alerting features rules pages (#6523)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/kibana-alerting-experimental/rules/configure-rule-tags.md

---
navigation_title: Tags and runbooks (Alert mode only)
applies_to:
  stack: experimental 9.5+
  serverless: experimental
products:
  - id: kibana
description: "Add tags and runbooks to Alert-mode rules in Kibana's experimental alerting system for filtering and investigation context."
---

# Tags and runbooks in the {{alerting-v2-system}} (Alert mode only) [tags-investigation]

> Tags and runbooks are optional metadata fields for Alert-mode rules in the {{alerting-v2-system}}.

Author: Applying feedback from Tia in https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/5528.

```suggestion
Tags and runbooks are optional artifacts for Alert-mode rules in the {{alerting-v2-system}}.
```

  serverless: experimental
products:
  - id: kibana
description: "Add tags and runbooks to Alert-mode rules in Kibana's experimental alerting system for filtering and investigation context."
---

# Tags and runbooks in the {{alerting-v2-system}} (Alert mode only) [tags-investigation]

Tags and runbooks are optional artifacts for Alert-mode rules in the {{alerting-v2-system}}.

- **Tags**: Free-form labels for filtering and organization. Maximum 20 tags per rule. Each tag can be up to 128 characters.
- **Runbooks**: An investigation guide stored with the rule so responders have context when alerts are generated.

## When to configure tags and runbooks [tags-when-to-use]

Configure tags when:

* You want to filter the Alerts UI by team, environment, or severity tier without writing ad hoc KQL queries each time.
* You are using action policies and want to match episodes by ownership or category rather than by rule name. Tags are inherited by alert episodes, so any tag you add to a rule is available as a KQL matcher in action policies.
* You manage many rules and need a consistent labeling scheme to track which team owns which alerts.

Configure a runbook when:

> * Responders who aren't familiar with the service may need to triage the alert. A runbook surfaces triage steps directly alongside the alert without requiring a separate search.

Author: ```suggestion
* Responders who aren't familiar with the service might need to triage the alert. A runbook surfaces triage steps directly alongside the alert without requiring a separate search.
```
